

Instance Template : used to create VM and Managed Instance Groups
all info needed to create instance in gcp
Defines:
Machine type
boot disk image or container image
labels
other instance properties

VM instance configuration saved to later use

Template is a global resource


Use wen you want to create quickly based on pre-existing configuration

Identical configurations templates are unique, cannot change... (to change
create a new template?)

Lab Instance Templates:
1. cerate instance template
2. Name of instance
3. Location: Regional/Global?
4. Region = us-central1
5. Machine type = N1-stardard-2
6. Boot Disk = Debian GNU/Linux 12 (bookworm)
7. identity and API Access / allow default Access
8.
9.

Instance Group - collection of VM's, managed as a single identity
Managed IG
Unmanaged IG

Managed IG :
a. create multiple Identical VMs
b. typically used with Load Balancers
c. any change to IG changes all VM's

MIG Advantages:
a. any VM part of MIG, crashes, the VM will be automatically recreated per Template
b. Auto Healing via Health-Check - set up auto healing policy, periodically verifies
    the app responds as expected on each MIG instance, if not.. VM is automatically recreated
c. Regional Coverage - Region MIG let spread app load across multiple zone,
    protect zone failures if all are in 1 zone.
d. Load Balancing = MIG work with Load-Balancing to spread the workload
e. Scalability - if additional compute resources needed, auto scaled MIGs can
    grow automatically & if demand drop, auto-scaled MIGs can automatically shrink.
f. Automated Updates - MIGs automatic updater allows for safe deployment of new software
    versions to instances. Cascade the updates on instances
g. Support for stateful workloads - Beta - DNS, Long running batch computation .
    Stateful MIGs preserve each instance unique state on Machine restart, recreation,
    auto-healing or update.

Unmanaged Instance Groups :
a. dissimilar instances can be added or removed. Different configurations per instances
b. No auto scaling, Auto Healing or Rolling Update features
c. No recommended, on when need to use load balancers on existing configuration
